welcome my name is Orlan Sorenson with
Woodinville whisky company and today I'm
going to show you how to add your own
whisky
now before we get started with actually
ageing a whisky a quick math lesson and
this is actually kind of a fun math
lesson before we have three different
barrel sizes a fifty three gallon barrel
a seven gallon barrel and a half gallon
burr now all of the whiskey in America
and Scotland and Ireland is typically
aged in a 53 gallon barrel or even
larger when you get that a smaller
barrel sizes your surface area to volume
ratio increases meaning that there's
more wood touching whisky so if you have
a normal 53 gallon barrel with a one to
one ratio and you have a seven gallon
barrel with a two two and a half to one
ratio your half gallon barrel has a much
higher surface area to volume ratio four
or five times the amount of wood in
contact with whisky and being that
there's so much more wooden contact with
whisky things are dramatically
accelerated so that's how in just a few
months you can have a nicely aged
product
okay so before we get started let's talk
about everything that's in the kit you
have your half gallon new charred oak
whiskey barrel comes with the bung and
the spout and Stan you have your tube
Glenn care and whiskey tasting glasses
and we have two bottles of 110 proof on
aged whiskey white dog whisk you have
the white dog means on aged whiskey your
funnel and then I have a picture of warm
water here for step 1 so step by step
instructions that are included there on
the barrel there also on our website and
you can also refer back to this video at
any point so the first thing we're going
to do is take the bottom off and we're
going to make sure we're closed so
closes either go to the side either side
and we are going to put the funnel in
and right here I just have hot water tap
water is fine for this phase of it so
just hot tap water and we are going to
build a barrel
okay the reason that we filled the
barrel with water is so we can swell it
and have a watertight before we put
whiskey in there that might take a few
hours it might take a few days
it might not leak at all once you've
noticed it's done leaking then you will
dump it back out make sure you store it
in a sink or in your bathtub or in the
garage or outside on a towel some work
and continually - may wait for a couple
days once you notice it's done leaking
you're just going to take the water and
dump it back out
okay now for the fun part we have two
bottles of 110 proof very high proof on
aged whiskey that we're going to pour
into the barrel
okay so now we have our two bottles
which is 1.5 liters of unaged whiskey in
our barrel now this barrel is about two
liters which is a half gallon and we're
going to take filtered water now and top
the barrel off what that's going to do
is we want to have the barrel completely
folder in the asian process but it's
also going to take the proof of the
whiskey down and more palatable drinking
straight somewhere between 86 and 90
proof
it's an optimal proof Dage the whiskey
at and it'll be all ready to drink once
it's mature okay so we've got the barrel
topped off with water we're full you
want to make sure that the bung is
completely sealed in there that there's
no way that any alcohol vapors could
escape out of this barrel so keep an eye
on for a day make sure that we're all
watertight before you sit set it away in
the corner somewhere one thing to keep
in mind you don't want to have it the
barrel aging in a real cold place you
don't want to have a real hot place so
too cold will swell things down
dramatically and too hot
you'll promote a lot of evaporation
dangers here so keep in a nice temperate
environment if you want all two things
up you can put it outside for a few days
we're in your garage and then bring it
back in kind of cycle it a little bit
okay now don't be afraid to taste
frequently just pour a little bit into
the glass nose it taste it see how you
like it once you determine it's ready
you can put it back in the bottle if you
want to give us some more time just pop
the bone open and pour your sample back
in this barrel has been aged for just
about three months it's absolutely
delicious it's ready to go back in the
bottle so what we're going to do here is
just we kept our balls and we're going
to pour right back into here there's
instructions that you can actually
filter it through cheesecloth if you
want to remove some of the sediment in
the barrel I personally like the raw
flavors associated little bit of
sediment so I'm not going to filter back
out but just pop pop your bum out there
and
back into the law
all right now for the best part this
whiskey is about three months old let's
see it's got some great color to it
nose
fantastic vanilla and caramel notes to
it
taste is absolutely delicious and that's
how your own whiskey
you